All right, welcome back.
So in the last lesson, we learned how to implement the validation stuff using a combination of springs
validation support and bootstraps own validation support to decorate these widgets when there are errors,
and that all looks great.
So in this lesson, we're going to do two things first.
I have a couple minor additional things that I want to do cosmetically here, and that won't take long
at all.
And then we're going to proceed with learning another one of the major crud operations, which is delete.
We need to implement a way to delete records, right?
Delete rose out of this table, for example, we've got these three dummy rows here with no data actually
in them, and we need a good way to get rid of those.
So we're going to learn how to do all of that.
So first off, let's let's address one more issue that a couple more issues that I have here.
I still don't like quite how scrunched up this table is.
And one thing that I want to try doing here is to just change the the width a little bit more of the
table.
And so right here where we had this div, which is in encapsulating the table and the form, and we've
got this column small 10 right here, I want to see what that looks like if we set that to 11.
Oh, yeah, see, that's even a little bit better.
And then if we come over here and drag this out, then it, then it breaks back out, though into the
wider display.
So yeah, I kind of like that even better.
All right.
So that's one thing I wanted to do.
Then another trick that we could also do is we could also make some of the columns of this table actually
just disappear if the width of the browser is too narrow.
So let me show you real quick how to do that also.
So we'll need to do some a little bit of magic, both on the table header.
Now I'm going to pick the email column here just randomly.
That's just the column I want.
I could do this on any of the of the columns or all of them or whatever, but I'm going to pick the
email column.
And so we're going to do that header and then we'll do the data rows as well.
So first, let's find the email header, which is right here.
And so what we're going to do is we're going to use a bootstrap mechanism, not going to bother going
and showing you where it is in the bootstrap documentation.
You can you can search for that.
But basically, we're going to add a class to this header.
And the trick here is to use the class called the hyphen.
And then we're going to set the breakpoint size, which will be small.
And then if we want the email header to just disappear when we are small, then we will say none, OK,
like that.
And then if we're going to do that, though, then we also need to specify how it should be when we're
not small.
So for that, we'll do a d hyphen medium hyphen and then I can specify something like table sell.
OK, like so and then I will grab all of that and we will do this again on the email field, in the
data rows.
OK, so I'll put my cursor right there space and then just paste all of that.
All right, so let's refresh and see that the email column hopefully will disappear.
Yep, there it is, look at that, it went away.
But now if we come over here and we expand this window, there it is.
See?
Then it pops back in.
So when we're wide, we get that email column, but when we're collapsed.
Right at the break point, there it is, then it disappears, and so then we get even more, you know,
real estate there, so you can use that kind of trick also to make various things disappear when you're
a little too small or whatever, OK?
Or when the when the window is a little too narrow.
OK, all right.
So that's enough of the cosmetic stuff, I think, for this lesson.
So now we're going to get on to the big thing here, which is how can we enable ourselves to delete
rows from the table?
And really, what I mean is delete data were records from the database, right?
How can we do that?
So what I have in mind here is to make it so that we can select rows for deletion.
And the way I'm going to do this is to add one more column here with a checkbox.
OK.
So we'll add a checkbox column.
So the way we can do that is, first off, will decide where we want this checkbox to be.
And I'm thinking, maybe we'll add another column right before the ID column here, which is this this
column right here, right?
So we'll add a data table data element right here, by the way.
You may have noticed that the ID table cells here are using this T.H that stands for table header.
The reason that's being used here is really just to make these IDs bold, and I didn't choose that.
That was the example I think that we got when I copied this.
You know, the template for this.
So that's just how they decided to to make things, and I didn't bother to change it.
So in case you were just wondering, why is there a there?
But everything else is a TD?
All right.
And then to get a chat box, what we will use is the HTML input element, which we have seen right there.
So we're going to use one of these again, however, will tell it that we want it to be a checkbox in
the way we can do that.
In fact, here, let me just close that off first.
OK, so the way we can do this is with a type attribute, and there we get to see all the different
types of input elements that exist.
And there is a checkbox one.
OK.
So we can have a checkbox there and I'm going to stop right there for right now.
We'll come back to this, but I just realized that I forgot to put the actual header in here also.
So but up here in the header section for the table, the table header lets also add a a column in here.
So we'll do a to and more just I should have just duplicate, I should have just copied.
The what's already there, really?
And I don't know, we'll just call this select, I guess.
All right, so let's just refresh and see what we've got so far.
OK.
Yeah, that that works.
We could possibly play around with the spacing a little bit.
But for right now, I think that'll work.
All right.
So we've got our checkboxes there.
Now, obviously, you can pretty much guess these checkboxes aren't going to do anything for us right
now.
I mean, we can come over here and we can select them, but we don't even have any way to trigger a
deletion to occur yet.
Right?
So we need a way to actually say, go delete the things that we've selected here.
And I think the easiest thing to do there is just to put a button down here below this table, like
a button that says Delete.
OK, so let's see what that might look like.
So right below that table?
Let's make a button now for this.
I do want to jump back over to the bootstrap documentation and we will look at components buttons.
OK, and let's see what our options are for buttons.
OK, so here are some nice looking buttons for display purposes or whatever.
And so in fact, what I think I will do is just copy one and I'm thinking to delete.
I want a nice red button.
OK.
So I'm going to copy the example of that, which is called danger.
So that would be this one right here.
So I will just copy that button, for starters.
All right.
And I'm going to paste that right there and then jump back over here and let's just see how that looks.
First of all.
All right, yeah, that's OK.
I am eventually going to want to have some space.
In fact, let's see if we could put a little space there right now, so let's do like a margin bottom
hyphen five.
Let's see if this will give us the space that yeah.
Yeah, cool.
All right.
So that gives a little space there.
So yeah, I think I am OK with that.
And then we'll change its name from danger to delete.
OK, cool.
Now we just need a way to make it so that when we select some of these.
And then click the delete button that it does something, so I'm clicking on it right now and it's doing
nothing.
And that makes sense because I haven't connected it to any type of functionality, right?
So the way that we can make this work is actually pretty much what we did for our form down here.
Basically, we're going to turn this table into a form essentially so that we so that when we click
the the button in our in our case, appear here, be the delete button.
But when we click that button, it submits some data from the form OK, and the form will just be these
checkbox is here.
All right.
So the key to doing that is really just to wrap the table, including the button inside of another form
element here.
All right.
And in fact, the next thing I think I will do is to select all of that.
All the way up to this table, and then I'm going to just do an option command T to surround and then
choose T and then so I will just type form for now and then hit return.
And let's see if that put the closing.
Yes, it did.
Okay, so give me a closing form there.
So now I will just copy the rest of this that way.
Come back up here.
Paced all of that like, so all right, now, the form that we have down here has tied each of its fields
to the person object that is in the model, right?
But in this particular case, for the table, we don't have a model and all we're really wanting is
just these check boxes here anyway.
So we're going to do this a little differently in this particular case.
We're not going to specify an object at all.
And we don't need this no validate business, either.
OK.
And what we will do instead, we'll actually you'll see in just a moment.
OK, so now we're going to come down here to our new check box and finish fleshing this out a bit.
We need to specify a few more things here.
As you may recall, in our form here, each of these fields got a name and that was part of the I.D..
Right.
So, yeah, like first name and blah blah blah.
And when we submitted this form and we looked at the request that the browser was building, we saw
that each of these fields was being sent back with whatever value was in it in text form as a text string,
basically.
So we want to have something similar to that happen with our checkboxes as well.
So these check boxes are going to need to have an I.D. or some kind of a name or something like that.
So what we can do is we can just specify a name and we're going to do this in kind of an interesting
way.
So let's say that we were to call these checkboxes something like selections.
OK, let's do that.
And then they're going to need a value, right?
So for the value now we can use a Time-Life attribute to call in value.
And the reason I'm using a timely attribute instead of just hard coding, something like I did here
for name is because I want this value here of the tech box to be the ID of the person that we're iterating
over.
OK?
So in other words, for each of these rows, if you were to click on any of these check boxes, that
checkbox would be associated with a value in the value that I want is just the ID.
And the reason I want the idea is because that's something that I know is going to be unique.
OK.
So the way I can do that is simply the same way that we're doing it down here.
In fact, I can just copy this.
I can copy that and paste it right there.
OK, so all I'm saying is whenever someone checks one of these check boxes for any given row, that's
going to send back the I.D. as the value for that particular check back.
And we'll you'll see what I mean more specifically in just a minute here.
OK, so that's how we'll get the values for each of these.
Oh, and then one more thing, we can also decorate these checkboxes a little bit.
So if we come over here, let's see.
There's we can see some examples of a check box somewhere in here.
Let's see.
Maybe we have to go into the forms.
There we go.
Checks and radios.
Checks.
So let's see, OK, so yes, Bootstrap does have some custom decorations for a check box, so let's
grab that.
OK.
And we'll add that I'll just put it anywhere, it doesn't matter where you put these attributes.
Class paste all of that.
Jump back over here and let's see.
There will likely be a subtle difference in how that looks.
OK, there rounded a little bit rounded and a little bit bigger.
That's that looks like the main difference there.
OK.
And what else?
OK, and then also let me just explain now what I was doing with this form, so this form here doesn't
have an object attribute on it, the common object.
And it really has nothing other than just the method.
And so what'll happen here is that by default, if you don't specify any of that kind of stuff on a
form, then the form will try to submit back to wherever its page came from.
So in other words, this page is loading from the slash people path or resource.
And so when I click this button by default, this form is going to try to post back to the people path,
which we already know is going to end up going back to our controller.
OK.
But it's going to go back to a method that is annotated with post mapping, which right now would be
this safe method here.
Now that's going to be a problem.
That's definitely going to be a problem, but we're going to address that in just a moment also.
But I wanted to explain what what that's going to do by default, OK?
All right.
So, all right, so let's make a few minor changes to this button.
So let's change its type from button to submit, and we will add a couple of attributes.
Let's add a name to it and let's call it the leaked.
And let's also set a value to true.
OK, so let's refresh.
OK, cool, so it still looks the same.
So now I'm going to open up the developer tools.
And I'm going to select these three blank records here and hit Delete so that we can examine what actually
will will be sent back to the controller.
All right.
So I just clicked on that and I will click on the people request that we just built here.
And if I click on payload.
So look at that.
So what happened is we got.
These three roads, in fact, let's look at the Raw at kind of the raw view of this.
This is kind of more realistic of what's actually going to be sent back.
So you can see here that we got selections, equals three and selections equals four and selections
equals five and delete equals true.
OK.
So why did I have you add the delete the delete name?
Because that's where that delete is coming from and the value of true.
Well, let me show you why.
So let's jump over to the controller and you already know that by default.
Now, when we click this delete button here, the request is going to by default, try to be routed
to any method we have on this class that has a post mapping on it.
OK.
And the problem there is that we don't want this delete button to result in calling the save person
method.
In fact, we want to have a new method for deleting people.
So, so let's go ahead and just start writing that method.
OK, and then I will show you how we can differentiate between those two calls.
So let's make a public string delete people method.
Right here, OK?
And for now, we'll just return another redirect back to people again whenever that is successful.
OK?
However, in order to tell spring in B.C..
That we want this method to be called when we hit this delete button here, what we're going to do is
a variation on the post mapping, so we will add a post mapping here just as we did before.
However, we will additionally add something add an attribute called params, which stands for parameters.
OK.
And in this, we can actually specify delete equals true.
So in other words, what this will do is when Spring in the Sea is trying to figure out which method
to call for a given request.
This will help spring in the sea to match this particular request.
In other words, it's going to say if I received a request that has a parameter of delete with a value
of true, then this method is the method that I should call instead of this one up here.
That's what this is for us.
So we're just using this as a way to differentiate one call from another call essentially, OK.
That's what that's for.
And then the other thing we're going to do now is how do we actually get our hands on this data here?
Right?
So there's some cool things we can do for that.
So what we will do is we can actually map these selections here since they all have the same name.
That's basically kind of like an array.
And so we can map that kind of a pattern where you've got this repeated the same name, but with different
values.
We can map that to a few different things, but one of the things we can map it to is a list.
We can map that to a list of longs.
OK, now we could make that anything, really a list of integers, a list of longs.
We can make it an array of longs.
Spring MVC would figure out the right thing to do with any of those combinations because it's pretty
smart.
All right.
And so I will call this selections so that it matches up with the parameter here that we're that we're
sending in.
OK.
And then for right now, I'm just going to print out those selections.
Just like that.
All right.
And then one more thing that we will need to make this all work.
We will need to help spring in D.C. to match up these parameters that are named selections to this parameter
here called selections.
The K and the way that we can do that is with an annotation at request.
Perram just like that.
OK.
And that's really all we need.
So as long as the parameters coming in are named the same thing as this parameter here in the method,
then Spring MVC will be able to match those up just fine.
If they did not match, that wouldn't be a problem.
We could alternatively specify what they are called over here.
So if they were called check boxes, for example, then we'd say checkboxes here and then we could call
them whatever we want to over here, OK, but if they have the same name, then I don't even need to
specify the parameter name there.
All right.
And let's see.
So let's refresh again.
OK, so now let's try this out.
So if we if I select these three rows and hit delete, in fact, hold on a second, let me clear this
out just so I don't have to.
Pass everything out.
So I hit Delete.
Look at that three, four and five.
And then we see hibernate doing its database query to go grab the data from the database again because
we were doing a redirect, OK, after all of that is done.
But here's what I wanted to see was these numbers three, four and five.
So now we can see that we are actually receiving these values.
Now let me show you something, though we're not quite done yet.
If.
Let me clear this out one more time.
Now, if I were to not select anything and then hit delete, let's see what happens.
Ah, it blows up.
And let's see if we get a message, so.
There we go.
Required request parameter selections for method parameter type list is not present, so basically it's
just saying that if we don't actually send any parameters at all called selections, then Spring ABC
doesn't know what to do with this and and it's kind of confused.
It's not going to just be empty.
It's just not going to get populated at all.
And that's kind of a problem.
So there are two ways, at least two ways that we can fix that.
One way that I will show you real quick is we can actually supply an option to this request parameter,
which is called required so we can say required equals false.
We could do that.
And then spring would allow this selection's variable here to be null when you don't have anything selected.
OK, so that's one way we can do that.
But we don't like nulls, right?
We learned how to do cooler things than to deal with North.
So alternatively, we could instead wrap this list in an optional so we could say that this is an optional.
Of a list of lungs.
Like, so let me import that.
And by having the optional here, spring will now tolerate this scenario where we don't have anything
selected and these selections will just be an empty, optional OK.
So let's take a look at that real quick.
So I'm going to restart everything.
And it actually already resubmitted the the the previous request with no checkbox is selected, and
now we see that we got back an optional empty online 50s when this system out that print line executed,
that's what we got back out.
And so now if I select four and hit delete.
There's the four or if I do three and four and hit delete, there's the three and the four.
And then if I do nothing, then I get an optional empty right.
So that is what we want.
And now we're ready to go ahead and actually delete some stuff.
So how do we do that now?
Well, that's should be actually pretty easy.
If we reference the person repository, there will be an inherited method on here.
Let's see, delete.
We've got delete where we can pass in a person.
We've got delete all which we definitely don't want.
We've got delete all where we could pass in a basically a collection of people or we've got delete by
IED or we've got delete all by ID.
And that's the one that I think we actually will want here.
Delete all by IED.
So let's choose that.
So what I'm thinking we can do here is really just wrap this.
And a conditional.
So we'll do an F..
And we'll see if selections.
Is present then.
Simply say selections, dot get.
And there we go.
I think that should be it.
So let's go ahead and restart.
And now let's see what happens if we delete just one of these, so three.
Hey, look, it's gone.
You see that it's actually gone and then four and five, let's get rid of both of those at the same
time.
There we go.
And so now we've got rose actually going away and we can see down here, Hibernate is actually executing
sequel to say, delete from person where ID equals blah blah blah.
And that is exactly what we wanted.
And let's get rid of two more these two right here.
In fact, let me clear that out.
I kind of want to pay more attention to it.
OK, so we'll get rid of these two.
There we go now.
It's interesting to me that hibernate is doing this in a in a particular way.
It's actually doing one delete at a time.
I would have thought that it would have used an end clause to do like a delete from person where I'd
in and then it would pass in all the ads.
But it's not doing that.
I'm OK with this for right now.
But that's something interesting to pay attention to, and that's one of the reasons why you sometimes
do want to really analyze what is hibernate generating for the sequel and make sure that it is what
you were expecting it to be.
If we were allowing ourselves to delete thousands or, you know, thousands or tens of thousands of
records by Edy, we almost certainly wouldn't want to do it in this way, where it has to do each deletion
one at a time like this, that's probably not good.
Now, most databases will only allow you to use an end clause up to like 100000 or 1024 parameters in
enclosures.
If you don't know what I'm talking about, I think I did briefly touch on in clauses in the database
section.
But you can go so you can go back there and look it up, or you can just Google it.
All right.
So anyway, I think we're done here.
I think we've got the delete functionality working, and it's working pretty nicely.
I'd say for the most part, I'm pretty happy with it.
So now we've got the ability to display records in the table, add new records and now we can delete
them as well.
And so the only remaining part of crud is the update, right?
We need a way to basically edit a record now.
So let's go ahead and implement that in the next lesson, and I will see you there.